Chapter 1.2: Metrics
=======================

What are the different methods of estimating infections?

#### Death Rate: 
There is substantial empirical data that suggests that the infection fatality rate of COVID 19 is somewhere between 0.1% and 1% (1). Infection fatality rate, or IFR, is a presumed percentage of all those infected with the virus that will die. In a world with perfect and complete data, the IFR would be calculated by dividing total deaths by total infections. As neither deaths or infections due to COVID 19 are exact, the IFR is a best estimate. However, it provides a relatively reliable method to determine the true number of infections. By dividing the number of reported deaths by the IFR, an estimate for infections can be derived. 
This estimate is not free from sources of uncertainty, however. Rather than divide the number of deaths each day by the IFR, the deaths were counted 18 days out. This is meant ot account for the delay between the time of infection and death, which is only an average estimate (2). Surely not all patients will follow this 18-day-to-death schedule, so there will be a degree of variance in the totals. 
#### Detection Rate:
The detection rate is an estimated percentage of the true number of infections that are actually reported. The calculation is quite simple: divide the number of reported cases by the estimated total number of infections. As aforementioned, the number of true infections is, at best, an estimate. Given the information available to me, I used the death-count/death-rate method to calculate infections. 
#### Antibody tests:
Besides viral tests, which determine if a person is currently infected with the Coronavirus, cases can be estimated using antibody tests. Antibody tests are used to determine if the virus has ever been present in a patient by testing for the antibodies produced after surviving a COVID 19 infection. While the principle of antibody tests suggests they could be a helpful source of data to determine true infection rates, they have practical implications that deterred me from using their data. First, the CDC claims it can take up to 3 weeks after infection for the immune response to build up in a patient's body. This means that there will be some unknown portion of the sample population who will test negative for antibodies, despite having contracted COVID 19. Furthermore, according to Dr. Neeraj Sood, vice dean for research at the USC Price School of Public Policy and infectious disease expert, “The amount of antibodies, especially of people who were infected early on, might be waning overtime, and our test might not be able to detect these lower levels of antibodies”. This creates a relatively small window in the course of an individual’s infection in which antibody testing would be effective and accurate. The margin of error in antibody testing that results from these implications doesn’t discredit the results, but detracts from their accuracy and scientific weight. 
